All right. Well, we're a few minutes
past the hour. We got a fully packed
room and we have Ethan here to give us
the latest and greatest on how to win
AEO. And with that in mind, I will mute
pass the mic over to Ethan. And if y'all
have any questions, Ethan has said that
he may answer some of them live. So
definitely drop them into the Q&A box
and we will get to them either live or
at the end of this webinar presentation.
With that in mind, Ethan, the floor is
yours.
>> Awesome. Thanks, Bernard. Long time no
see. So I've [clears throat] given this
present I've I've t done about 12
different webinars and I want to make
sure that I'm not repeating the same
webinar. So my plan here is fewer
slides, more live demos. it seems what
is the most useful and then as people
have questions uh the more specific I
can be the better. So if you have
questions just put them in the chat and
Bernard will interrupt me and ask me but
um that's the plan and uh I have a new
case study that I'll share with legit
security as of this morning so uh accept
and shut up. Okay so I'm Ethan uh our
company is called Graphite. We are a
digital marketing agency. We specialize
in SEO and now AEO and we do that with a
bunch of companies. Here are some uh
rippling, notion, web flow. Uh and we do
so we build out entire strategies. We
don't just do audits and like slide
decks, but we're actually building
stuff. So we actually see the outcomes
of our work. Why that matters is all of
the stuff that I'm suggesting are things
that we've are building or actually
building and some of which we've seen
outcomes for. uh we're early in answer
engine optimization and I don't think
anyone actually knows uh what works like
we do for SEO where you know Bernard and
I have been doing that for 18 years so
we're early so I'll share with you
either what I do know and I have two
case studies web flow and legit security
and then what I think is probably true
based on analysis so that's the
structure of this
okay so uh AI is growing I think we
[clears throat] all know this but it's
especially been growing since January
where there's been a big surge in this
is from similar web a big surge in uh
usage of LMS and then also the answers
are starting to get a bit more clickable
the uh chatbt still has most market
share but uh Gemini and complexity are
large and Gemini is actually growing I
think faster than any other LLM uh right
now uh like number of downloads and
usage Gemini is blowing up this is
actually not this is actually one month
out of date But the the the market is
heating up. The the second thing is last
year,
you'll see last year for Web Flow, no
conversions. So, Chad GBT launched in
2022, but we didn't start seeing a lot
of actual business value until the last
few months starting in uh January again,
but we're starting to see it's an
actually substantial channel. And uh and
therefore, it's not like a theoretical
thing. Should we focus on this? It's
it's uh meaningful right now. So, I
think now is the time to focus on.
Usually, when there's a new channel, I
say don't worry about it until it's
large enough to worry about and it's now
large enough to worry about.
Okay. So, when LLM's first launch, it
was based on next word prediction, which
is I asked what the what the capital
Sacramento is and then chat GPT. It had
a model trained where it looked at
billions of web pages and then it could
predict the next word which is
Sacramento
more and more the alms are based on
search and here's an example. So what is
application security posture management
and here it'll be doing a search. Yep.
Searching the web. It's finding a bunch
of stuff. It's giving an answer. And
then you will see at the bottom here
that the search results are not shown.
So it's not 10 blue links.
I'm going to see almost done. Okay. So
here are the sources. So it started with
a search. So it did not start by asking
the model predict the next word. It did
a search and then the model summarized
these. So there's two pieces to the
answer. There's the core model and
there's the rag response. The rag
response is this set of search results.
rag is just a fancy way to say search
results, retrieval, augmented
generation. So the R the uh the R in rag
is this just search results and then the
core model then summarizes what it sees
here. But it's not the case that the
core model is this mysterious thing that
you you know you don't know how it works
and it's unpredictable.
The core model frequently is perhaps
mysterious but the rag response is the
majority of the answer which is less
mysterious. So you can see the search
results here and so the answer is a
summarization of this and
that's how the model works. So then uh
how do we actually show up like you know
how are these relevant and what you'll
see here I'll jump over to this other
one here. So I asked what is what is
this and then it had the search results
and then a company we work with called
legit security appears. So, why did they
appear? They appeared with an SEO
article. So, one thing I'm hearing a lot
is SEO and search engine optimization
are completely different and you should
just stop doing SEO completely. And
actually, what you'll see is if you just
do traditional SEO, it works for free
really well with AEO. So, here's an an
article. It's the same exact same thing
that we would do for for SEO. What is
application security management? We have
this article here.
This showed up because we used we
probably use something like clear scope
where it says you know include things
like how does it integrate and what are
the benefits and what is this thing. So
we optimize the content
uh and you know we optimize the content
with a with a like like a clear scope.
The other thing that we did here was
look at all the uh look at all the
keywords that this ranks for. So it's a
combination of a clear scope like tool
and then
and then looking at the uh keywords that
we acquire on which we'll see here. So
we're ranking for 18 different keywords
and you'll see some sub themes like
posture management tools security
and uh yeah applications. So we want a
list of tools
and that's the general relevance for how
this URL shows up. The second
interesting thing that we did here is
we're starting to play around with
uh we're starting to play around with
videos that are not entertaining. And
why I mention that is because YouTube is
filled with entertaining videos like
food, travel, beauty, and um and so
those categories are crowded on YouTube.
YouTube is not crowded with videos about
boring things like application security,
posture management. Not many people
spend their weekends watching videos
about this, which means that it's not
crowded. And so it's but but you know,
it's a very high LTV. So it's it's the
most interesting
uh products to do video on are the least
entertaining ones because they're not
crowded. So here you'll see we have this
piece of content. There's this YouTube
video that's embedded. I will open this.
This boosts engagement. This is also not
a super produced. Yeah, it's not like we
spent thousands of dollars on this. Uh,
this is easy to make and it's increasing
the engagement on the page
and it's starting to show up in
it's starting to show up in AI overview.
See, so how to secure generated code and
you actually see the video here. So this
relatively inexpensive video is helping
the URL show up in chat GBT. It's
boosting in in uh AI overviews. I
believe I saw it. Yeah. So, similar with
Gemini, the same article with the video
shows up here. So, this one strategy is
showing up all over the place. Uh here
we also see what is this here and this
also has a video. So, basically doing
just straight SEO like you would 5 years
ago. uh informing the structure of the
page with clear scope with looking at
all the different keywords and then
embedding videos and the video then
boosts this one page across all search
engines. It boosts this video within
YouTube so it gets more views. We just
launched this so it's uh no wait sorry
we just launched this one
uh or we're starting to yeah we just
embedded it. So it's basically creating
this loop where the URL shows up in chat
GBT uh you go to the page you view it it
boosts in YouTube then that shows up in
Gemini it shows up in video search it
shows up in AI overviews and so creates
this loop this is especially interesting
for uh non-entertaining B2B categories.
The second thing we see is
okay. So that's earned that's uh or
sorry that's that's a that's a owned URL
on your site. So the second thing that
we're seeing I asked this question here
which is what is this? Are there any
good tools to do this? Cuz like did we
get value out of this URL? Maybe maybe
not. So are there any good tools that do
this? And you will see that it will
include among others legit security and
it's mentioning legit security because
we have this page and an interesting
thing here is uh
yeah this is a list of the types of
features that this particular tool
allows you to do and so this page on
legit security now means that legit is a
specific product that is recommended
within the answer. So these are two
different strategies. One is where we
added value to the answer but we're not
necessarily a tool mentioned and then
the second thing is where we are part of
the answer which you could see here. The
other thing to show here is
uh that I want to show you is um
Reddit and so how does how do you do
secure AI generated code and uh you know
there's a few different themes of the
kinds of citations. So there's UGC which
is Reddit, Corora, Stack Overflow.
There's video which is YouTube, Vimeo,
Tik Tok, uh, Instagram. There's your
site, which is owned. There's
affiliates. And so to win, you want all
of these things. Uh, if you just
optimize for one, you it's not enough.
So here's an example of a Reddit thread
with uh, Web Flow. So for web flow we do
a bunch of stuff and um we've
[clears throat] we've played around with
Reddit and it's hard. So basically it's
it's common for your comments to get
down weighted or your thread to get
removed because the the community is
very intense. So we've been playing
around with how do we do web flow. the
the the uh strategies that we've seen
work is to just say who you are and give
say who you are, give useful information
and uh like this is my name, this is
where I work and here's useful
information.
So, this sounds obvious. Back to your
question, Bernard, how do you optimize
for Reddit? You create hundreds of fake
Reddit accounts and then you post things
and then you upvote each other's stuff
so that you get more karma points and
then you start spamming all of Reddit by
saying you should really consider using
clear scope. And the way that I liken
that is it's kind of like if Bernard
showed up at a dinner party that he
wasn't invited to and sat next to
someone and like have you considered
using Clear Scope? You know, that would
be kind of weird. But if you said, hey,
you have a question about optimizing
content. My name's Bernard. I work at
Clear Scope and why don't you consider
filling in some content gaps? That would
be perfectly fine. So, I've seen that
work. I've also seen
uh I've also seen this is a fun example.
So, this is a this is an example where
there's a thread about is Ethan Smith
another
SEO influencer? What am I missing? And
so, then I uh commented on it by saying
this is my name and this is who I am and
here's a thoughtful response to whether
or not I'm overhyped.
and this did really well. Uh so that's
my general suggestion about how to how
to optimize for Reddit is just to be an
actual authentic person. Say who you
are, where you work, build karma over
time. The other uh interesting thing is
just Reddit ads I think are a very under
underutilized category. So So that's
Reddit. Uh let me jump over to a another
example and Bernard, let me know if
there any questions. We got we got some
some questions for you. So, specifically
around the video concept,
it works for non-entertaining topics
like you said, but how do you decide
what topics are worth creating videos
around? Asks Molly.
>> Yeah. Okay. So, what's what's the
intense like what what are the five
steps to go through for this? So, let's
say that I'm a brand new I'm a brand new
uh Ripling competitor. So or let's say a
Gusto competitor. So I'm I'm I I I want
to go after gusto. So what I would do is
the following. First thing that I would
do is what questions should I care about
in the first place? And how I would do
that is there's two different ways.
There's there's uh looking at search
data and then there's looking at some of
the panel database tools. I personally
like the uh search data just because I
have clarity about where the search data
comes from. So I would go to Austoto and
I would start by looking at what are the
top paid keywords that they're going
after and those will be my keywords.
Like let's take direct deposit form.
That's step one. Step two is I would ask
uh please make this keyword into a
question
and you'll get a pretty good response
back. So now you don't know for sure the
volume for this but you do know the
volume for this and you know that
probably people are asking questions
about this. So this is a known this is a
known data set whereas handle data is
unknown.
So what I do is I just take top paid and
and organic keywords and then I get
questions out of them like this. The
second thing I do is I put them in a
tool. So I put them in a tool. We have
our own tool and then there's also a
bunch of these other tools. I'll just
show you peakai. So peakai is a tool and
then you put a bunch of questions in and
then you start getting citations back.
And so then when you start getting
citations back, you can then see what
channel should I care about in the first
place. So best website builder for
designers. This might be very different
from uh you know best television like
the affiliates or sorry the citations
that are appearing for for website
builders are different from from
televisions which are going to be
different from travel. So you you don't
want to just optimize generally for any
type of citation. You want to know the
specific citations you want to go after.
So I have my I I took my 100 keywords
then I transformed them into a 100
questions. Then I put them into a tool.
Then I look to see what cit what themes
of citation they're showing up here.
You'll see it's affiliates like
Techraar. It's video like YouTube. It's
Reddit threads and it's Yeah. And then
it's owned sites like a web flow. So
these are my four categories. Video
affiliates, Reddit owned site. Then I
want to come up with a strategy. There's
on-site, there's off-site earned, and
there's off-site owned. So, on-site
earned, sorry, on-site is just a page on
my site like uh like this page.
[clears throat] Off-site owned is my
YouTube account, like Web Flow's YouTube
account. Off-site earned would be
somebody else talked about me. Uh, does
that happen to your question?
>> I believe so. Yeah,
>> probably.
>> Yes. Yes. Molly says yes.
>> Great. Okay. So, so then uh I I'll talk
about web flow a little bit. Again, I
have two real examples cuz uh I have
lots of examples of causing outcomes in
SEO. I have two in AEO, which is better
than zero. So, I want to make sure I
talk about the actual causing of
outcomes. So, web flow is the second uh
causing of outcomes example. And here I
mentioned the Vivian uh at Webflow
comment here. Let me see if we have that
here. We don't. Um, but YouTube has a
big
uh a big sorry, Webflow has a big
YouTube account and they're basically
creating tons of videos about how to do
X. It's not just how to use my product,
but how to build a site, how to do X.
It's essentially SEO topics. And what
that means is that Web Flow, when you
say, "What's the best website builder
for designers?" They can show up with a
page on their site, uh, a YouTube video,
a Reddit thread, an affiliate mention on
Techraar, and you can show up multiple
times, and then you can, you know,
basically own that answer by showing up
over and over and over again.
Uh, so that's uh, YouTube. The the next
case study, so the next case study is
with Ripling where we did SEO and it
just worked for free in answer
optimization. So, it wasn't necessarily
a focus specific AEO strategy. It's just
that the SEO work worked for free and
chat is built for so let's do what is
the best payroll management software
software for HR
and you'll see here hopefully it'll say
rippling somewhere
and
for for Google you would probably type
this in and you would get an answer then
you would leave but chat is based on
chat is based on conversations with
ongoing questions. So you'll see here we
have this page for rippling with all
these features that they have. So
employee database management and time
and attendance tracking. So which these
uh employee
uh database management and attendance
tracking.
This is what chat's built for. And the
average number of words for a question
and chat is I think 25 or something
pretty substantial versus a
unfortunately rippling's not showing up.
part of part of the part of the joy of
doing a demo. But why is why is Gusto
appearing? And you'll see Gusto's
appearing because they have a landing
page specifically about the feature that
I asked about which is employee database
management
uh employee management software and then
on pay shows up for their help center.
So
I I mentioned that SEO works for free.
What is the difference between answer
engine optimization and and SEO? And the
answer is everything you do in SEO works
for free and AEO. The differences are
the head and the tail. So the head is
offsite and then the tail is very
specific follow-up questions like which
of which products do have this feature,
have this integration, have this
language. And one of the best places to
optimize that is the is your help center
cuz your help center describes how your
product functions.
And usually in essay you wouldn't
optimize you wouldn't spend a lot of
time optimizing your help center. But
since chat has questions about how your
product functions, it's actually a great
place to to optimize and it's usually
not optimized. So you'll see here
Bernard will notice that we have a
subdomain and um you know my
recommendation for optimizing your help
center it would be three things. The
first thing is just never use subdomains
because they tend to not perform as well
as subdirectories. I don't know why but
that's just how Google built their
algorithm. Uh so number one move this to
a subdirectory. Number two is typically
internal links are not optimized. So
you'll see here there's only five
internal links and um we know that more
internal links are better. And then the
third is to I would say optimize your
title tags like you'll see here using
your employee directory help center but
it doesn't say payroll management
software. So you can do a lot more to
optimize this title tag. And the fourth
thing is that a key decision with your
help center is whether or not to ask
allow anyone to ask any question and
have it be publicly indexed or not. So,
if we go back to
this chart here, the tail is larger in
chat. And I mentioned that you could use
search data to inform what the tail
looks like. But if you've if you if the
tail is larger, you don't you
necessarily do not have search data to
inform what the tail looks like. And
there's some question tracking tools
based on panel data, but panel data is
also a subset of people and real data.
And then you're extrapolating from that.
So I think that there's probably a fair
amount of mystery around what the tail
looks like. There's probably very little
information. So how do you know what the
tail looks like? And you know goes back
to uh uh when uh Bernard and I first met
and discussed programmatic SEO.
Programmatic the premise of programmatic
SEO is to find what the tail looks like
for search. And if you and if other
people don't know what the tail looks
like and you're the only one that does,
then you can just eat up the tail. This
is essentially a tail for questions
without a really good data set. So how
do you find out what the tail looks
like? One way is to allow like what are
all the what are all the very specific
questions. One way is to allow people to
ask any question they want within your
help center that has concerns about
whether or not you'll have junk there.
But that is a potential strategy which
is to basically have an open-ended forum
for your help center saying does your
product do this thing? The uh the other
thing that you can do is to look at
Reddit threads. So, Reddit threads are
people literally asking questions, and
these can help inform the uh specific
follow-up questions that people might
have and what the tale looks like.
Ethan, got a got a quick question for
you. So,
I mean, this idea of
adding a lot of context around your
brand is a very fascinating concept,
right? I think I've heard people who you
know have written say product use case
pages for their B2B software and they
mention that their product is a good
solution for X or Y and it's a very
unique you know outcome. Let's say, you
know, you do HR software and then you
just happen to throw manufacturers
into a, you know, answer or question
that you put on some page.
What is to pre prevent someone from just
spinning up a bunch of misinformation
about how a brand works, right? and
imagining, you know, there's this like
modernday
uh like keyword stuffing, if you will,
where I could say, you know, like
product X is good for, you know,
industry Y and then I just repeat that
over and over and over again on like a
specific page, like
does that work? Should that work? And
what are your thoughts around that?
>> Yes. So, let's say I wanted to spread
information like Clear Scope is an email
marketing tool and uh get and it costs
$5,000, so you shouldn't use it. So, how
would I do that? I would do it
[clears throat] exactly what you just
said and I don't think that there's a
way to prevent that. Um, let me let me
show you this one quick example. So, how
do you spread misin how does
misinformation get spread and how do you
cause hallucinations? Essentially,
hallucination optimization actually a
brand, you know, a derivative of online
disreputation management. So, um, this
is an example of an article that we did
with Axios where we wrote this, uh, AI
content study and Axios wrote about it.
And [clears throat] so, here's our study
and we we it's four of us and none of us
attended Oxford, unfortunately. Uh, but,
you know, we went to pretty good
schools, but we didn't go to Oxford. So
then Perplexity
reposted an AI summary saying Oxford
researchers just confirmed what we
already knew. And um and the reason why
it did that is because Perplexity
summarized our article and as part of
the RAG response of the summary, they
looked at this model collapse paper
which I did not write nor was it
affiliated with our study and these
people went to Oxford and um and then
the summary said that we were Oxford
researchers and then that posted okay
that post oh and then uh Marcos on our
team said hey perplexity
That's not actually what happened. It
was us. And then Perplexity said, "Oh,
thanks so much. Attribution updated, but
not updated." And then that got reposted
across LinkedIn with Oxford Researchers.
And then it went viral on inst uh on
yeah on Instagram, Oxford Researchers.
Okay. So why this matters is this is a
real example of misinformation going
absolutely viral. In fact, it the the
misinformation version of our post did
better than the posts that mentioned us
as the as the author. So, why does that
all matter? I do think that there's no
protection at all to do um to do uh
online disreputation management uh
optimization. Like I could say that
clear if I get Clear Scope is a email
marketing tool that costs $5,000 like I
could do that. There's no protection.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That's that's what I feared.
And from a lot of research looking
underneath how different algorithms
specifically Gemini and GPT perform
research, what I've been finding is that
I think GPT tends to value official
sources. This would be then looking at
help centers, FAQs, product pages from
the website itself. Whereas it looks
like Gemini likes to value broader, you
know, more generic resources and they
deviate away from looking at official
sources
probably to prevent, you know, both the
massaging of sentiment for a specific
brand whether that's a a positive
outcome or a negative outcome. What are
your thoughts about
this reputation and you know owned
assets and how are you supposed to then
position you know which pages like make
sense to really optimize for right
you've mentioned help centers you've
mentioned blog posts and you've
mentioned uh you know product like use
case pages do each of them have
different weights and values or are you
finding that a specific page type
matters more.
>> I think the question is which appears
more frequently [clears throat] and I
think any of them can appear frequently
like it's just well part of it which
appears more frequently which I think
goes back to volume. So the question
that you're asking is are people asking
more about integrations, features, use
cases and and we don't actually know but
I think just from you know working in
search what I do see a lot is use cases
and templates number one and then I see
more specific things like integrations
maybe third. So that that's what I see
the most.
>> Got it. All right. Going back to some
questions that have popped up.
This one's interesting. So when you say
normal SEO is still applicable to AEO
right a lot of that's the keyword
research the building of the you know
content pages the optimizing of that
content but how do you think about core
web vitals or like site speed and
technical SEO does that matter as much
>> no nor has it for a long time and
[clears throat] um this is actually an
interesting
uh that's my short answer now a a
question that you didn't ask that I that
will also an uh ask or answer is um
[clears throat] much of SEO best
practices are things that are true and
not impactful. So SEO like much of SEO
is stuff that's a waste of time. Things
that are true and a waste of time. Core
web vitals is a perfect example. So core
web vitals I've never seen it drive
impact within within the last 15 years.
Uh however, if you ask people, they'll
say it's like I'll have job I'll have
interviews and people like we optimized
their core web vitals and we saw traffic
go up by 20%. And there's no way that
that's true. And what's h what happens
is there's bad either bad analysis or
just misinformation that gets repeated
and that's happening in answer
optimization at an even faster rate. So
I'll I'll frequent I'll briefly discuss
core web vitals. So core web vitals
comes from when a page was when you saw
a page in 2000, it might take 2 minutes
to load and that would be bad and you
would want a faster page and it's a lot
better to have a page that loads in 2
seconds than 2 minutes. So it did matter
then there are not pages that take 2
minutes to load. And so if your page
takes 2 seconds versus 1.8 seconds,
there's no difference. So it is a
signal. It's true. It is a signal. If
your page loads in 2 minutes, that would
be bad. But nobody's page does. So in
effect, core web vitals is a thing that
is true but zero impact. The same I am
not seeing any any uh any impact in LMS.
I haven't rigorously tested slow pages
versus fast pages and LMS but I doubt
it. Um but that's what I see. So then
there's technical. So technical SEO
again [clears throat] in 2005 technical
SEO basically meant fixing Google's
shortcomings or exploiting them. Uh so
now what that means is fixing chatbt's
uh uh shortcomings or exploiting them.
So what what uh what shortcomings might
chatt have? The page can't be read. So I
have this article with text and images
and CSS. The bot can't read that. It's a
$500 billion company with the smartest
engineers in the world, but somehow they
haven't figured out how to par parse
HTML and CSS and words and images. So,
I'm going to transform this article into
this other markdown structured data
weird thing so that that bot can support
that even though there's no evidence
that they look at that or you know any
any evidence at all. But I'm just going
to sort of make up a new protocol
because because uh chat GBD hasn't
figured out how to read text and images.
So I I I see I mean it's true that you
know the LLM uses markdown but you can
make an article and transform into
markdown like it's not that hard. So,
you know, there are cases perhaps where
uh LMS can't read JavaScript properly.
If you did a really terrible job of
implementing your JavaScript with yes,
that that could be, but I think for all
intents and purpose, there's these
things that pop up about, you know, the
LLM can't understand your page. I
haven't seen any of those to be true.
And the uh misinformation of it is true
is uh, you know, I hear this all the
time. Just the magnitude of the
misinformation and the acceleration is
is pretty substantial, which is uh
interesting to observe. So, it's kind of
like the misinformation of SEO that
took, you know, over 10 years collapsed
into one year.
>> All right. Along that same line, Alex
asks similar stuff. Should we be
focusing on HTML structure, schema
markup? What is your perspective on the
new LLM.txt
file concept? Does this fall under
misinformation or is this actual like
best practices in your opinion?
>> Yes. So, two answers. The answer one is
that John Mueller g see if I can pull it
up explicitly said
uh yeah as far as I know I'm I don't
know anyone who uses this. So this is an
interesting example where someone said
this might be a good idea and it is a
good it's not a bad idea like send data
in a structure to make a algorithm
understand like that's a good idea. It's
just that it doesn't nobody uses it. And
so it's this idea that then has gotten
repeated so many times that if you hear
the thing like, "Hey, Bernard, have you
heard about this? Have you heard about
Bernard.txt?" And like, you know, I've
heard 10 people talk about Bernard.txt,
that must be a thing. And so that that's
what happened that that's what happened
here, which is that an idea got repeated
so many times that it became a fact. So
there's no evidence that this uh has any
effect at all. Schema for sure has an
effect, and I can show you that. So if
we do what is the best TV for my
apartment apartment
uh you will see schema and schema I I
see that often especially with commerce
commerce and ratings and aggregate
reviews that for sure I'm seeing up here
and when we do this we'll probably see a
grid at the bottom top eight and let's
see if Yep. So you'll see this grid and
then when I click on this you'll see
multiple places to buy it and the places
to buy it are appearing because they
have schema. So here this page has
schema and therefore this this TV can be
uh dduped and we know that there's
multiple sellers for this one TV with
this one model and that is why it's
because of schema. The second thing that
we're seeing around technical that I do
think will matter and is new is the uh
MCP stuff that OpenAI is seeing with
Shopify and Stripe and all this. And so
uh and there's also Chat GBT Alexa. So
chat or sorry Atlas. So Chat GBT Atlas
is where you say
uh plan my vacation. So, plan my
vacation and you're going to have a
hotel booked, a restaurant booked,
flight booked, and you may not have even
needed to go to those websites. Like,
you got a flight on United and you, you
know, uh, reserve something through Open
Table and Marriott, you you booked your
hotel and you don't need to go to those
sites. And so what we just saw was uh
chat GBT giving guidance about give
information about your buttons and your
forms which I think probably I haven't
tested but I think probably that's
because they want to be able to execute
conversions within your website. So I
think that what we will see is a new
field of technical stuff that does
matter which is you want the agents to
be able to perform actions on your
website. That is new that is probably
kind of messy and probably will need to
be fixed. So that area of technical AEO
uh I I do think that will will come.
We're not seeing people do that yet, but
that's what I think is coming.
>> Yeah, I think that that makes a ton of
sense. I cannot pronounce this name. I
think it's some sort of a Greek name,
but how do you think about new ways of
forming keyword clusters? Right. keyword
clustering, obviously the concept of
wrapping a bunch of identical, if not
similar sounding keywords into one
particular bucket. And how does that
apply to, you know, this taxonomy that,
you know, this language that we've found
ourselves in around the fan out of
queries that AI is performing for the
end user, right? If I ask what are the
best TV apartments and GBT decides to
perform a web search, right? What is
your thoughts around building clusters
to target that particular prompt that
the user is going after?
>> Yep. Let me see if I can recreate this.
So, let's see. Okay.
So, if when I click this, I think it'll
give you some fan outs. What are the
best TV or sorry, what are the best TVs
for apartments? So, you'll see here I
think it'll do a fan out. Yep. Searching
here top. Yeah, like top 43 in TVs. So,
that's clearly a fan out from just TVs
and oh yeah, assistant steps. So, you'll
see the fan out right here. So, how I
would think about this would be two
steps. Step one is just my keywords that
I know I want. And let's do this here,
robust TVs. So, how I would do that is I
would take Whoops.
TVs for apartments. So, I would do your
your typical SEO clustering best TVs for
apartments
here where you'll see
a bunch of keywords in this particular
URL,
4,000 different keywords, and you'll see
some some themes like the year and best
and for a particular use case. So, that
you can start with your search cluster
there. And then you could take your fan
out. And how you could do fan out would
be to put them in perplex probably put
them in perplexity because they're
readily available here. And you'll see
some interesting things like the 43in
example or compact. So I would basically
start with your searcher cluster and
then fan out uh using a perplexity to
say tell me what the fan out is.
And so would you in your opinion create
separate pages to target best apartments
or best TVs for apartments, compact
smart TVs and then you know a separate
one for top 43in TVs or would you try to
bundle them all together on one specific
page?
>> Yeah, for me there you know you could
debate about the definition of a topic
but for me the definition of a topic is
there's one page that should target this
cluster of things questions or uh
keywords.
>> [clears throat]
>> So for me you have one page and you know
why would be this one page ranks for
these 2500. So given that it's ranking
you probably don't need to separate it
out. So you start with these and then
the exact same thing should be true.
Ideally you have a single page that is
fulfilling the intent of these. If it's
impossible, perhaps you have a like
perhaps you do a 43 inch, but presumably
this question, you know, uh the URLs
that are appearing for this question are
fulfilling the intent of 43 and of
compact. So my general suggestion is uh
to to have a single page or topic that
is targeting all of the search keywords
and all of the fan out keywords or
questions.
>> Got it.
All right. Ulie asks given that there's
so much what is informational content on
you know the what is concepts how would
you spend your resources and budget in
percentage for each of the top ofunnel
middle ofunnel and bottom of funnel
content when thinking about
that as you know part of your content
strategy.
Yeah, I would, this is a little bit
different. I would spend no time at all
really on glossery definitions and low
intense stuff. I would focus on the end
of the journey and probably the middle
of the journey, but the very beginning
of the journey and glossery definitions,
there's no clickability within the
answers. And the intent is low. Even if
you asked me 5 years ago, should you do
glossery terms, I would still probably
say no because there's no intent to know
the definition of payroll management
software. The intent is buying it or
researching options or understanding use
cases but not the definition of the
word. So the same answer that I would
give you 5 years ago is the answer I
would give you today which is don't
spend time on on definitional uh terms
like that but do spend time on the end
of the journey. The non-obvious thing is
also spend time on the middle of the
journey. So a mistake that I would say
is ranking for payroll management
software but ignoring the use cases and
the integrations cuz that is your
persona and your buyer. they're going to
be ready to buy eventually. Even if
they're not ready to buy today, they
will eventually be ready to buy. So, I
would still focus on the on the middle
and I don't think that that'll get uh uh
you know owned by AI and not be
impactful.
>> All right. I personally have a a
follow-up question to this. How
important do you think topical authority
is in relation to large language model
or AEO?
And does it make sense to create top
offunnel content targeting the what is
you know why X matters type stuff simply
to win an AI citation to then further
enhance your brand's ability to perform
across the middle of funnel and bottom
of funnel prompts.
>> Yes, the answer is yes. Okay, so let me
break it down into a couple different
things. So the first thing is how does
the how does topical authority work. So
how topical authority works is I think
it's a few different uh features. So how
authority work was just back links and
anchor text. So if I link to clear scope
and I say SEO tool that means you're an
SEO tool. The more the better. Then the
authority algorithm diversified and it
included things like branded search SEO
tool clear scope or and then it also
expanded into if I search for best SEO
tool and I go to clear scope and I stay
then the engagement for the search was
good which is what you're actually
asking about. Or if you had chicken
recipes and there were great chicken
recipes and then everyone was searching
for that and claimed came to clear
scope,
you will now get a topical authority for
chicken recipes even without backlink
text. So searching for something and
clicking and getting good engagement
means topical authority for that and you
will rank better for that. So if
[clears throat] you have content if you
have more and more content about chicken
recipes you will get do do better and
better and better and so uh yes to your
to answer your question uh if you create
content in a particular topical area you
want to create for you want to rank for
even if it's not valuable that like
let's say that this is back to the
definition what is the definition of
payroll zero conversion rate ever but if
you get good clicks you're buy payroll
software payroll management software you
will rank better for that so that works
for Google. I think that that also works
for LMS because LMS are using search
engines and search engines are an
evolved technology. There's not, you
know, they're all kind of the same thing
based on similar u similar uh
infrastructure. So I think probably that
the exact same thing would be true for
all the elements.
>> Got it. Yeah, I think that that makes a
lot of sense. I know we have some other
onpage stuff before we talk about off-
page things like Reddit, so I figured I
would, you know, link those together.
Julia has an interesting question.
Winter has a dedicated page to increase
their chances of getting cited by LLMs.
If you look at the chat, there's a
specific AI info page that they've
created to
communicate to large language models
what they are, you know, who started it,
what it's ideal for. Is that something
that you would recommend or is that just
part of the noise that you know we've
been seeing happen as discussions within
AEO continue to happen?
>> Let's see.
So how I can answer that is ask the chat
tell me what you know about this
company. So this company winter is
trying to tell the bot trying to tell
the AI this is uh this is this is
information about my company like where
we're from and where we headquartered.
So let's let's take a look at this. So
funding how it works speed and agility.
So let's do something pricing 10,000
and let's say where was it founded?
Where was this company founded?
founded and
uh and then
who is the founder and
uh what what is the uh what is the
category and what the category so you
could basically answer this question by
just asking the bot tell me about this
company and let's see what it comes back
with I do think that
you know back to the uh example that I
gave with rippling and with gusto where
it says we have these features we have
these HR features. It's clear that those
things are pulled. So, this does seem
like the sort of thing that would get
pulled. So, let's see here. Winter and
it's pulling from the about page and it
is not pulling from the AI. So, the AI
page/ AI info page. So, it's pulling
from there and it's pulling from the
about page. And once again, and at no
point is it pulling from the AI page.
So, I mean, the interesting thing here
is it's just pulling from the about page
because you already have the information
here.
And so you didn't need to you didn't
need to give it a name like hey a llm
just so you know you're you're the the
door for you is over here. You had the
information here and you didn't need
more information. That's what I'm seeing
here is uh it needs to exist somewhere
but it doesn't need to specifically be
called AI page.
>> Yeah, that makes a ton of sense. So I
could see to summarize I could see a
world where if you're a brand new
company or product or service having
this information whether it be in an AI
specific page like what winter has done
or just an about page or your product
use case or service pages would be the
same outcome as what we're seeing happen
here with winter.
>> Yes. And again, you know, this
highlights having the information exist
is what you need. It's not calling it
something. It's not structuring it
differently. These are just using search
engines and search engines can find
pages without being called search engine
page. Just list the features that you
have or list the company information uh
that you have and the bot will find it
on its own. You don't need to do
anything special. All you need to know
is what questions people have and to
answer them.
>> Totally. All right, one more question.
Daniel asks, "Have you seen a difference
in the difficulty to getting visibility
and citations based on traditional SEO
metrics like keyword search volume, KD,
keyword difficulty, or cost per click?
Or does the previous keyword analysis
not relate to LLM visib LLM visibility
at all? And does it take the same time
in SEO, right, for results to start
showing, or have you seen it happen
faster or slower?
>> Anecdotally, I've seen the same
correlation with difficulty and and
authority and all that. I have not
rigorously tested that, but anecdotally,
I have. We flow is a good example. I
spent a bunch of time looking at their
stuff, and I'm I I typically see high
authority sites. I typically don't see
low authority sites. And then um I will
say that the speed is different. So the
speed specifically for new companies is
different because for a brand new
company if I'm if I'm competing with uh
with a a web flow and I'm a new noode
tool I could win by winning the
citations. So what is the best website
builder? So back to this example.
>> You're not very yet.
>> Yep. It would take me a really long
time. Like let's do best website
builder.
These are going to be crowded. Lovable
Web Flow,
Reddit, Web Flow. Yeah, Canva. Like this
is a really hard page to win. If I
launched my site tomorrow, this is this
is not going to happen. Essentially, I
wouldn't even I wouldn't even try. And
then when you're here,
then you can win quickly if you paying
the Tom's guide and say, "Hey, would you
please mention me for we may earn
possibly earn an affiliate commission?"
Like, if I give you $500, will I become
the best website builder in the probably
for the right price? And that could
happen tomorrow. Like, as soon as Tom's
guidance says you're the best, you
become the best. So, if you go through
here, you get mentioned on Reddit and
Techraar and Tom's Guide and Yep. Tom's
Tech Radar, like we might earn affiliate
commission. I'm not really sure. So,
that [clears throat] can happen very
quickly, way faster than my brand new
website, you know, slogging through
trying to win a position in in Google
search.
>> Makes a lot of sense. Let's let's talk
about off- page because you just
basically mentioned how getting brand
mentions within top performing
content for the competitive keywords is
important. So talking about Reddit on
Reddit should we pay attention to should
we pay attention to old threads that get
a lot of traction and rank in the SER
and how old is too old for targeting
those? asks Fernando.
>> I think that they shut them down. Uh I
believe that they closed commenting for
for old popular ones, which I think is
the question. I I I anecdotally I think
that you need to look at fresh ones
because it's hard to go back from a
thread from a year ago and then suddenly
have an answer there. So I would focus
on new threads. That's anecdotal. That's
not rigorous analysis, but um
anecdotally that's what I'm seeing.
>> Got it. And then back to one of your
original early conversations about
Reddit with the commenting of, you know,
hey, my name's Ethan, I'm at Graphite,
so on and so forth. Should the account
itself look generic or company branded?
Does that matter?
>> It does seem to matter. And I I I Reddit
has also given me specific suggest like
the company Reddit's given me specific
suggestions. So part of their
suggestions are to do exactly what I
showed you, which is I I'll summarize
some of their suggestions, but it's to
say who you are.
It is to what web builders I'll just
I'll just literally show you my account.
So say who you are. Don't use a picture
[clears throat] of yourself. Do a little
icon. So this is me, Ethan Graphite,
little friendly avatar. And um I have my
bio, so everything's transparent. And
then uh this is generally what does well
better than company accounts.
>> Yeah.
>> And that is that is Ethan describing
what Reddit said to Ethan versus Ethan
is a master but but Reddit is a master
at Reddit marketing. So that's what they
suggest to me.
>> All right. I'm going to ask a follow-up
question to that. when you are
commenting
say on Reddit or if you're trying to win
branded mentions on these top performing
sites for the topical areas that you
care about, how important is the A
mention of your brand name like say
graphite, b a link specifically to
graphite and c the lexicon surrounding
the discussion
of where that graphite brand mention or
link exists.
>> I will show you. I I think I know some
and I think others. So, how I would
answer that would be if we go here
and we find Let me see if I can find
this. What I want to do is I want to
find
Reddit.
Yeah, ideally I ideally we would find a
specific mention. So what here's what I
think. I think that it's just getting
mentioned at all. I don't have data to
suggest that a link matters and I
[clears throat] don't have data to
suggest
uh yeah sorry here's what I think.
Mention number one and semantic
relatedness number two. So semantic
relatedness like the the lexical stuff
that you mentioned will increase the
probability will increase the relevance
of the rea thread which will then
increase the likelihood of that red
thread appearing for a particular
question. I think that that's not
controversial. We know that. So if this
best website builder that has a bunch of
content about you know the examples and
benefits and all that sort of stuff it's
more likely to show up. Uh it'll have a
high relevance score more likely to show
up. Number one. Number two is a mention.
And it's clear that mentions matter.
It's not clear that links matter. So I
don't know about links, but the first
two I do know the answer to, which is a
mention is good and that the uh semantic
uh relevance will increase the
probability of the URL appearing in the
citations.
>> All right, one more follow-up question
to that. In SEO, there was or is a
theory on the above the fold scroll
depth of content mattering. Do you think
that the scroll depth or mention
placement higher or lower has an impact
on AEO?
>> I don't know. But I will tell you what I
do know. What I do know is if we do
something like uh like this, what I've
seen in Google is a discrete
b or a binary thing meaning above fold
matters. Above fold is bucket one with
greater weight. All below fold is bucket
two.
Whatever the position in bucket two
doesn't matter. So this is equal to
Whoops. That's equal to the thing all
the way down here. So I played around
with moving stuff around and the it's
just two binary buckets below fold and
above fold. The second test that I've
done is you'll see here let's say that
this was all you saw above fold. This is
not great. there's not there's not a lot
of relevant text and so you're you're
putting you're you're leaving money on
the table. If instead you have some of
this appearing above fold, this is
probably what you would see above fold.
This is good. If this didn't show up
above fold, this page is not optimized.
But whatever the ordering is below here
doesn't matter. So that's how Google
works. And I've tested that a fair
amount. Now do I think that
>> Yeah. Uh do I think that chat GBT is
built the same way? I think my general
thinking on chatbt is it is a new search
engine and they haven't had 20 years to
build their search engine and I think
that there's a bunch of that like the
core search engine probably function
similar to Google. I know that there's
all these like tons and tons of things
that Google has added on to to like
refine stuff that I don't think that
they've had time to build. So it
wouldn't surprise me if they didn't do
above fold. Now, you know, one other
theme I've generally seen is that there
I think that their authority algorithm
is not as evolved. An example is I see
Techrider, which nothing against
Techrider, but that's like showing up
all over the place and you don't see
that in Google. So, you're seeing these
strange themes where the relevance is
generally very good, but the authority
is seems off. Um, so I think that some
of these more nuanced refinements that
Google has built have not been built by
chat GPT like the thing that you
mentioned around scroll depth.
>> Totally. All right, we're coming up on
time. I'm going to ask one more question
because I think this one's very
interesting and comes from Sai. They
ask, does having personal experiences or
expert tips help AI recognize the
content and display it in general? Um
you know I'll tack on the concept of you
know information gain helpful content
EAT you know what is your opinion of the
role that personal experience plays
within getting your content
having your content influence or be part
of the answer.
>> I think that information gain matters
and I think that personal experience
matters. I think uh well sorry I know
information matters information gain I
have decent data to suggest that I also
have decent data suggest personal
experience matters how I think what the
what how I think the algorithm is
implemented is I think that the
algorithm is looking for two things the
first thing is the uh uh
comprehensiveness so do you have gaps
are you missing something that the other
20 results have second piece is are you
saying something that they are not
saying that is still relevant
And so information gain would be you you
gave an example that many people have
not mentioned. You took a contrarian
opinion. You've done stuff around this
contrarian opinions like the downsides
of this and that'll get boosted because
it's the downsides. I think that they
also are looking at personal experience.
I don't wouldn't necessarily say it
helps them understand something. Rather
I think that the algorithm is
specifically looking for uh I think uh
HSM Rush did a correlation around like
uh personal pronouns or something like
that. mention of that information gain
and um so that's what I think that
they're looking at.
>> Awesome. Well, we're right up on the
hour and this has been a fantastic
session. I usually like to end by asking
you Ethan, is there something that you
would like to share with our audience
especially as we head into 2026 and you
know the world of search continues to
evolve. Any last notes, comments for our
wonderful audience that has tuned in?
>> I would say two things. Thing one is
that the majority of the information
that is uh people share about this
category is not true. Uh and the
magnitude is high. So I would suggest to
test things and uh set up experiments
and validate whether or not these things
are true and not take at face value what
you've heard. Uh and then the second so
set up tests and do experiments uh and
please share your experiments uh if you
have findings please share them because
I don't have all the answers and then
the second thing is I think that a very
interesting category is going to be this
autonomous agent plan my vacation and
make decisions without my involvement.
That's very interesting and I think that
that'll be a big change that we don't
have the answers for yet.
Yeah, that one that one's pretty pretty
crazy when agents have your your credit
card information and purchasing power
and can simply just book things and
operate autonomously on your behalf. At
that point, you know, AEO wouldn't even
necessarily be the name of what we're
implementing here, but just a very
fascinating world that we find ourselves
in. All right,
>> well, that's a wrap. Thank you all for
tuning in. We will upload this recording
to YouTube and we hope to catch you on
another webinar. Thanks so much Ethan.
Catch you.
>> Thanks. Cheers.